take it away on okay can we can we say a
quick happy birthday to your buddy
while we're recording you can sing happy
birthday to me three benchmarks is your
challenge for the day make it Sparkle
awesome thank you thank you thank you um
Alan if you want to share a scream with
pretty pictures on it yeah I can't if
yeah okay I wasn't expecting to start
with this picture why not let's do it
you proposed it I did okay I'm my own
worst enemy share this screen okay cool
let's try and move this thing out of the
way a little bit okay cool can you all
see my screen now yeah okay cool I
managed to get this up and running again
it's just it was just due to some the
server but we started and there's a
component of it that isn't set up to
automatically restart itself so so
unfortunately there's there's been a
lapse in collection of benchmark
statistics but we still have historical
benchmarks to look at right now so um
let's quickly take you through this so
this is the graph on this is like a
dashboard where we see the results of
the performance metrics that we've been
running and collecting and as it's set
up now these performance metrics get run
on a nightly basis the again and what
happens is the JSI PFS repo gets updated
so we get the new new code every night
and then these performance metrics gets
get done it's quite daunting we have
quite a lot of tests that are here but
we can filter them filter them down to
just this things that we care about to
make it a little less less daunting and
a little more easier to inspect and then
you can obviously you can change the
dates and pounds of stuff in standard
curve graph on
so thinks so what are we testing we have
this big matrix that I made of the
things that we'd like to test so they
are like adding files they are cutting
files and like yeah em FS things and
pub/sub things and tests in the browser
but it's also it's also variations in
like dag strategy as well as like
variations guys so that's totally
typical I'm sat in the kitchen because
anyway um so yes variations in like deck
strategy in like the transport we're
using in the multiplexer that we're
using and whether you're using CIO or
not
so it's variations in that but also
variations in the types of nodes were
using and the number of nodes we're
using so we've got like the idea of like
a test that is just for one node so like
adding a file that's just a test adding
it to one particular nodes those like
zero to zero but then we have like zero
to one is like from one node to another
node and they are two J's nodes in this
case and then we have like J s to go and
then we have five j s nodes to one
jeaious node and then we so we've got
this old matrix of test that what we'd
like to see the green apples are the
ones that exist the red apples are the
ones that don't rather obviously and we
have like a bunch of tests not clickable
but yes so we have next up how do we how
do we add a test it's just a JavaScript
file there is some other bits but I
believe we're going to be making sure
that there is a way a proper tutorial
for doing this essentially you get a few
peers you get some randomly generated
files to test with and then you you take
the time do the test take the end time
the result and that's just about it
what's kind of nice about this is that
the any tests that you edit or or add
when when they get merged to master the
the there's tests that run on this repo
that get run and if they're successful
then it will actually be deployed to
benchmarks or ipfs the IO and so your
tests will automatically start running
against whenever nightly happens or or
the other trigger which we haven't
talked about yet what does this look
like so infrastructure wise this is kind
of two two nodes a controller node which
is this this chunk of stuff here this is
way more complicated than then you need
to really understand how so just taking
through the bits that are kind of
interesting is that there are two two
machines one is the controller so this
is in charge of receiving the fact that
the benchmarks need to be run actually
scheduling in them in and getting the
run and recording the results putting
the results on ipfs and then we have
another bare-metal machine which is
responsible for actually running those
benchmarks and then once they are done
it will use these clinic tools that
these are a bunch of tools that near
form the company who set up this this
these benchmarks and have created to
help us on a DP debug know and what
happened during this module so that's
kind of cool
yes so the interesting part here is that
there is a HTTP endpoint a trigger and
we have a on the machine that's like a
nightly a cron job which and every night
will trigger the benchmark the
controller to run the benchmarks there
is also this so this could this doesn't
exist but the trigger can be used by CI
to run the benchmarks for a particular
commit
and there's a swagger end point with the
D and the config for doing that and it
takes like a young an API key that you
have to know about how to be able to to
trigger them so we're we're we right
there okay so these are some of the
interesting things about the benchmarks
we've got so here this is just an
example of like we are the variation
here is between our M flex marker and
speedy waxer and we can see here that
which is kind of interesting so what's
kind of cool about these benchmarks is
like looking over the that's what the
captured data we have they're all fairly
fairly level there's no big kind of
performance hit that that's observable
from these so that's kind of reassuring
in some way I guess but so that there's
that that is the you know the big thing
that we can we can look at with the the
benchmarks you know because we can see
instantly if there is overnight some
particular dropping for four months for
a particular test so either either we're
doing okay
or we don't have the right tests so so
that's interesting so this is just one
of them with our variation days between
FX and speedy and it looks like speedy
is no wait M Plex is performing ever so
slightly better on the left hand side
the the y-axis is time in milliseconds
for this test to happen and but so
that's just jst J yes what we can see on
this one is we've got adding a file in
we're adding a 64 Meg file and go and
yes I don't know how to get rid of this
from down so we can see that go is a
little bit faster free that's like three
seconds versus two seconds which is kind
of cool and then like then we can change
we have that we have different types of
files but there's four megabyte files
we're a little bit closer together to
200 odd milliseconds to kind of cool
other ones we've got
different transport here so TCP and
WebSockets these are these are we can
see here that you know there actually
there's not a lot in it and they're
pretty fast then it was kind of
interesting that WebSocket seemed to be
a bit faster than the anticipate all
right so the other the final kind of
interesting thing about the benchmarks
is that we also have this this ability
to use the clinic which I talked about
earlier in the in the infrastructure of
these clinic tools so what happens here
is that once the benchmarks are in run
these tools go over the kind of debug
files will in a Detroiter file or
whatever is there to kind of pick out
the interesting stuff and do and show us
like slim graphs and things so I need to
look into why we don't have things for
all of them I don't know if they're
meant to be there for all of the tests
that we've ever done or but I know that
the swagger endpoints for triggering
them you can tell it to clinic enabled
you can tell it to run clinical need on
this particular and benchmark so I don't
I need to figure that out but like I
said just you've got this running so so
yeah but yeah so I should be able to
click on this guy and so then we see all
of the tests we have here and social
extracting so this is local extract
since like a file has been added to your
node and this is the time it takes to
cat it back out and to you just locally
so this isn't involved in any kind of
network but we've got these three things
and we can pull up the flame graph for
that and then we get this nice kind of
visualization as what the node was doing
whilst that was happening and then we
can drill into the kind of hotspots and
where things are and that is just about
all I know about it and it needs they
need a bit of work but yeah that's like
one shot quickly of like the benchmark
homepage or something because you showed
a lot of really beautiful pages and I'm
like hmm I imagine logging in here I'm
gonna be so confused
how I find those pretty pages that Alan
showed me so if there's like the row
index yeah right so when you first get
there you will you will arrive just you
will arrive here there's no data points
because we last seven days though this
wasn't running but we can change that
our videos in the way get out of the way
we can change it out to the last 90 days
and then you can see all of the data
that was collected and then just
underneath that grants let's just expand
it here a little bit just on an h-back
grass these are all the tests that exist
so these are all the lines on the graph
and so you can click on one or more of
these to just show this particular this
particular test and then yeah you can
you can like drag over a particular date
period to zoom in on that date period so
if you see like there's a big drop of in
one of the graphs compared to the others
then you can drill in take a look at
that there is really only this one page
that is configurable to look at the
results but you can like things that I
often do are like changed the file set
that was used to see if that had like
different performance characteristics
but we also we also record CPU and
memory as well as iteration test and
it's kind of cool and yeah you can
filter by particular and
yeah there's there's any one real page -
it's awesome
thank you yeah we can also probably I
don't know what getting access to this
looks like but would love to be able to
like put some of the default graphs that
we want to keep tracking over time kind
of out by default otherwise it takes
like five mouse clicks to like recheck
each thank you can there is I think Hugo
went in and and they'll they different
you can create the grass like it's like
Johannes just like this generic kind of
tools for graphing things so you can
create different dashboards and login as
an admin and it's it's really possible
yeah I have a questions wrong yeah
that's universal radius walk is I need
have a look at the benchmarks ripple and
I could see kind of a theoretical side
of things which is really it's been like
we even got it was great to see you know
there is a bunch a lot of anointment
between between one test and from
testing and prod the design are we
working on and what is the moving
components and in this particular system
so it's like at the end of the day you
know when you're doing Penta fire game
like you know most systems aren't going
to be concerned or the same contest
they're going to be concerned with the
same time right so it's good just to
gather confirmation I think money Bree
said and like basically hey getting
access like we don't want to have a
myriad tools out there that we need to
check one by one to get a sense of how
things are performing across the board
ideally we'll be having a single
dashboard which provides a unified entry
point and experience to the engineer and
but with the architecture that we
conceptualize for for the testing
running this so this has a front-end and
it has a map right so what what what
Alan showed us the the architecture
diagram with with a coordinator or your
I remember we hold it in the like that
components in the middle and then the
minions
this is kind of like the packet and this
poverty is driven by an API so
potentially we
integrate this testing infrastructure
into the testing the wider testing
pipeline for ipfs such that whenever we
detect a commit in JSI BFS we could be
the ones like trigger in calling the API
by a particular encapsulating like all
of these calls and wrapping you know
that the spawning of this job in the in
this infrastructure under a test Runner
because we have the concept we'll be
building the concept of pluggable test
runners out of which you're not canary
testing is one is one strategy for
testing my defense code but the Jas IVFs
benchmarks could be another test run so
potentially we would be triggering the
job and then the test runner has an
input and it produces an output where
the outputs are basically a bunch of
metrics and those metrics are in a
particular data model such that what we
could do is pick them up from
grandfather if they're sorry from
Prometheus if they're being posted there
or I remember in flux TV I think it is
if they're being posted there and then
you know bring them import them into the
identified metrics database of the
testing pipeline so that that you know
is effectively one way of integrating
this piece into the pipeline because
this is you know what we're building
always heading out to build is really a
pot like it's the unified view of the
pipeline the hey something happens
change happen in the idea that score
basic a people or a BFS a so you could
be going J yes and we want to see how
things are interoperating performing
whether basic slope tests are running
how they're performing against the life
net how they're performing in private
you know in private networks with a
particular composition composition
mimicking the public network so you know
a bunch of things that make sense even
has a question
good question about the fauna can you
see this this table like time for each
run and then I press file uploads a is
it possible to get like in a table of
like here are all the you know it smells
like here all the different metrics we
have and then a bunch of time runs and
then like cells with like the individual
stats we have from them something we're
like I can easily browse through all the
benchmarks is it my concern here is like
just like trying to like find Oh like
here's this Medtronic here are all
departments associated with this
benchmark at this time across these
times it's a bit hard to dig into that I
just don't I don't know if I go home -
no that's easily doable
yeah I am I do not know but I can
probably find out I'm not um I don't
know about Griffin or any I only started
using it when I speak while trying to
play around this for the other graph on
a dashboard because I was trying to get
useful like metric deltas and stuff like
that and do like changes over time and
aggregate and it was extremely difficult
and I had to export it to a CSV but I
might also be a noob
well nothing like with this link we can
actually change this without having to
go into into the backend we're like with
the current set of the world closing
we'd have a fixed UI which yes we'd have
graphs on it but like we're not going to
get this wonderful interactive like
query system that we have here and I
think this may actually like just give
us everything we need most of the dogs
it turns out for final authors have work
for buttons Oh like we can inject
arbitrary HTML so we could do that for
even like triggering tests or like
looking to various things so I think
this is pretty like hey that's why I
want to look at it see like what
basically how can here to create our
system into this do you do the king as
much work as possible and then make it
interactive as possible rolls earth yeah
so I think Breanna is a great tool to
drill down but when you require that top
level view bird's-eye view we definitely
need a UI that we all that is designed
for exactly digesting the pieces of
information that we need to display in a
comparative fashion so I mean I
definitely see you know lots of links in
that particular dashboard that would
send you off to a particular profile on
instance making with a slice of time or
you pre-selected or whatever that allows
you to like zero in to a particular
event that you know has happened from
this like top level digest view right
I wonder if we can't just make that
dashboard here it looks like we can I'm
just not entirely sure because if we
already have a dashboard of like simple
times now we want is like a some kind of
dashboard that well so the look thing
we're missing here is like me yes or no
like they did this run faster in the
cutoff restore in the cough I think like
this as good as yeah it's good it's
gonna be super tricky I think to model
this one profiler because at the end of
the day we do want to pick be able to
pick a particular baseline that we want
to compare you know specific metrics
against and graph on ax is really good
to show to show time series you know as
a series of time type of data points
over time but like I don't think that's
I think that's a pretty similar click
we'll probably have is like one row per
benchmark and then each like each column
will be one run of each benchmark and
for that we can just like have like
graphs going across the screen
one for each benchmark I with like that
each point we'd have the different
things happen and we could use bar
graphs so they could clearly see like
this is this run this run and we can
zoom in all the time so that's what I'm
thinking like the nice thing about this
is we get this nice you are we can just
mess with things ourselves or like
anything we build will give you the
overview but if you want to message that
you'll have to jump to Kohana
I've concerned like that will take extra
effort or like if we have it all good
fun already
then it's just like they're I think
where I'm starting to like shed a little
bit so I want to get us back on topic of
the overall thing of this mission Thank
You Alan so much for presenting you go
ahead a hand - okay you go request for
our hands to the important hands contain
I just want to say that I think we can
model like high-level - works pretty
well under finer it all depends on the
backend database if you can do the query
that we need you can model it in in the
file - it all depends where you save the
data
just yeah just just one final remark
there
Rehana is great for a contiguous time
slices but when you have multiple
branches that are evolving independently
and you want to test one like you want
to compare one against the other and
another snow like it there are different
timelines that are happening in parallel
that would be very difficult to model a
graph on that from whom from my
experience with grip on earth and this
might be you know might have changed we
can tag each one of these with like
master or whatever branches on and like
the the graphs can show it faster or
nightly or whatever and then like we can
have like a separate list of like runs
male actually I think this is important
discuss like this business skill people
work so I want a composition like are we
gonna just use go fauna or are we going
to like build up it on the system on top
of it are we going to reuse the same
databases that javascript is using right
here yes Dean is using or are we going
to build up a new system like which is
he would replace this a so I'm trying to
get um yeah so that leads leads nicely
into I think a meta point of how to
think about these things a key point
here given that we have really problem
focus groups that need to be able to
sprint forward on specific tasks that
are blocking each of these these
different projects is to try and remove
cross dependencies where possible so if
if there is a thing that is going to
block this team's progress and is
otherwise like critical for the next
stages of development having an MVP of
of that stage that has zero blocking
dependencies on other groups is super
important otherwise we're gonna end up
inevitably in the place where one group
is blocking the other has more important
things on their plate than unblocking
the other group and we're sitting around
spinning our wheels because one group
can't get to the other thing now an MVP
doesn't mean that we don't eventually
want these things all to end up in the
same place and I think we do but that
could be like you know one website that
has
different web UI is that you know boom
boom boom hit these same things and by
the way we embed them all into like one
master page you can like really easily
click between them and like that's a
fine world to live in as long as we're
making it really accessible and not
adding like dev overhead for checking
deep this like what now looks like the
same page but initially was goes as
three separate you eyes when we when we
first started out to remove this cross
dependency across loops and so that's
the method I think that is significantly
more important than reducing like
overlap if we have some amount of
overlap that we can later kind of reuse
that's okay as long as we end up using
our time really wisely now in terms of
getting to a place so that's that's like
my meta point for how we make these
decisions the the kind of point is it
would be nice to reduce time and effort
in building a new system so I don't want
to build a second dashboard if we're to
have something you can just use yeah and
like Ethier has already have the test
Orchestrator here that appears to do a
lot of what we need to do like and this
is all done so it's not like we're
waiting on anyone else
so I are thinking if we can just like
open this up the testing team and then
to start building on what's there it may
be faster now it may be slower because
like it's alright like we're not
familiar with it in this case we should
have it
but let's reuse the information I'm sort
of missing is there's all these
different projects and I don't really
know why they came about why they died
like why with was a new project started
when there was a previous project like
was it unsuitable so I think that's like
good information to have when we build
yet another one to avoid the same traps
I think a lot of its just perhaps staff
turnover or just not even staff turnover
with people going from one project to
another is that a fair assessment I
guess
you know I think this one is a victim of
League duty testified which hopefully
will die
hands hands on this particular topic I
was yours yeah roles and actually
there's really like two series just to
give you a better bit of history there
and okay
no I do have a company one year ago and
many of these efforts predated my
joining complete but how do we have like
a view basically just like the vision of
creating you know a test lab that people
can it is morphed a long time initially
we wanted the IP invest project on it
like the ground vision is to create a
dynamic system that is public where
people can plug in compute power
essentially and an infrastructure and a
node anywhere around the world that
could then be used to run a series of
tests across a decentralized network
right this is like one vision then there
have been other visions which are a bit
more constrained and more like with with
a type beyond applicability there says
that what we want to test as ipfs and if
it's a fail or what a tested in like
hermetic you know tight airtight
deployment such that we can characterize
how our code is working in the
predictable and reproducible
environments right and this has been
like the sort of like the underlying
necessity that led to for example the
current test lab and then there is for
example been thwarted the the Jas
benchmarks the way that I see that the
way that I see is like particularly as
Steven said kinda like a very scoped
effort to characterize J is pretty says
right and potentially over in the future
can pair them with window releases so
things like think of this as kind of
like first of all a bunch of visions
which have made you know which have
iterated over time and also you know
created like various efforts a long time
but then also think of this as like in
micro service oriented organization
right people just build the tools that
they need for the time that they need
them so this is for example the way that
I see that the J is benchmarks actually
came to life I don't but I don't know
what the like the actual history was but
I can see
you know this is the application
Allen you're next yeah I just wanted to
add that like these particular
benchmarks were then it really died
there's probably been nearly a month
since they they have been off that we've
got that historic data that the problem
was just there is the machine was
restarted and something didn't come back
up when it was when it came back on so
like this particular put it didn't die
there is a previous jeaious benchmarks
but this project took inspiration from
that wasn't based on it because it was
it was based in the web browser and we
wanted to be able to to run go nodes as
well as as jeaious nodes so that we
could compare between the two
implementations so like I was saying
this has been a kind of iteration on an
idea for a while and the other thing I
just wanted to really quickly say it was
like crow fauna is it's like one of
those applications that you can kind of
do anything with and when I was asking
about it when this was being worked on
the guys were like yeah what basically
whatever you want to do we can do it
might not be pretty but it can be done
with Gravano but it is a bit clunky and
it doesn't give you that nice overall
overall view that I think you're talking
about roll it can be created in a way
and I think that's what hugo was trying
to do initially with with with the
dashboard that I was and I quickly
demonstrated yeah but actually one more
thing sorry really quickly and the thing
that this doesn't have that we would
need if it's like 90% there then that's
great for the one thing that this
doesn't have is like it's taking JSI VFS
nightly and updating JSON give us and
using that particular version in the
tests it's not doing so what we'd have
to do is and change it so that it took
go might be and built back and use that
in the test as well so that's that's the
Delta there
just I just shared my screen this is a
mock-up that Jim came up with it is a
starting point for it kind of like what
we were conceptualizing as what could
turn into that potential top-down view
it's kind of like you know the bird's
eye view and for different types of
tests lemmings that I've run the test
cases and the metrics that we've
registered for example these metrics
like the time that could be bytes in by
Todd and so on as well as links to minor
ease and profiles and heat thumbs and so
on that you know would would be the raw
material that for example clinic is is
analyzing here for you guys and behind
the posting of the profiles and the
dumps and so on we could the the testing
the testing pipeline could also be
performing intelligence to extract you
know metrics of interest out of those
profiles and post them here as well so
kind of like you know we want this to be
this is god this would be kind of like
the the view that we've been
conceptualizing it is very like this
this comes from from inspiration as well
from one and a few references that that
he gave us at the beginning to you know
for example if you look at the other
chrome benchmark tests if you look at
the note mean for example that kind of
like matrix for you would be kind of
like the main source of inspiration
right we want a matrix where we can see
means yellows and reds and it becomes
immediately obvious you know where we
should be putting our attention to
without having to parse it right right
when you when you parse and try it like
I can imagine sorry I could imagine like
if you if you model this up or finer
then it's probably going to be looking
like a huge either a huge chart with a
lot of lines so you information is gonna
get lost right or it's gonna look like a
dashboard where you have to scroll a lot
and down right so I mean I'm not like
100% sold on weather graph Anna would be
the right top-level view and I think we
need to own that view because it needs
to like I want this place to be the you
know the point where any ipfs memory
community member not necessarily
engineered but any community member can
just you know access and see the health
of each and every single commit on goal
Inge is in the sense that house that's
performing against the public network
plus is performing in a scenario with
1,000 nodes or whenever how's this
performing against another
implementation how they enter operating
a bunch of smoke tests if we deploy a
particular release in like a soft
release in the Gateway or a bootstrapper
what are the metrics right that we
capturing is there looking better or
worse than yesterday like you know this
unified view that is intelligible from
as soon as you as you go in as
intelligible as you know Venus for
example right which is you know you're
just getting as soon as he going now
they could just confuse things even
further I've been experimenting with
scientific notebooks like Jupiter for
sort of like one-off experimentation and
I don't like that's not a dashboard
obviously but I would like like if I did
a scientific notebook exploration I want
to publish that somewhere where it's
visible so I like that to be linked from
a dashboard so I don't really know how
that will work but hopefully have some
prototypes in next few months
um I want to continue my effort to bring
these topics meta to give us like
general guiding principles about how we
do this because I think in many cases
that's going to be more important than
like specific decisions
I think Stevens point from before that
like this has a lot of what we need
already which is awesome and like let's
let's start playing around with the
benchmarks data we have and use this as
a place where we can push stuff and try
and pull it from different directions
and see where this doesn't meet our
needs we're gonna get a lot of feedback
just by getting things there trying to
sink our teeth into it and understanding
where Crisanta like doesn't let us go
the direction we want to go having done
that like a while with our other metrics
like we will find points where it's like
oh I really wanna be able to do this
thing and profunda doesn't let me or the
shape of the data behind Griffin ah
isn't letting me or something like that
but this exists and it's runs nightly
and you can add benchmarks to it by like
adding pull requests somewhere and
that's great and so let's try and make
use of that and not try and invent a new
system to start doing that that being
said principle of not blocking endeavors
across each other like I see a lot of
value in this node Green style thing I
also agree with making it accessible but
to the extent that we can have an MVP
milestone of like hey let's start by
just pushing these things to the place
that already exists and hey cool we can
also be working on on this pathway at
the same time where we like to take take
our data and like take it from there
into other pathways and hey but at the
same time we're gonna grab all of this
other data that already exists and also
put that into improve you eyes or things
like that I think I put my meta point
here is let's try and and cut our
deliverables down to the extent that we
can get something up and running as
quickly as possible so that we can learn
from it and to let's make sure that we
don't we don't block these efforts
across each other such that you know
it's like great I can get this thing up
but I also want to do this other thing
because in this air
for this slice of testing it's gonna be
really critical but no other team is
dependent on me doing that to start
adding their own things to something
that already exists so I guess my I met
a proposal there is like this seems
really awesome let's start pulling
around with it using it like for one I
would love to go play around with the
test visualizations because to make it
more accessible because let's imagine
this is the thing that we are using for
test visualizations for at least the
next month we probably want some better
things there but a month from now maybe
we have a better system that we can also
import this data into I think that'd be
grand and we probably have value-adds
for both so that's that's why I'm at a
point and I do want us to like get back
to the the list of tests at some point
yes others yeah go ahead Allen yeah I
think that I think it's a good idea I
can I can put a minimal amount of effort
into this to make it more useful for go
I give us and in the meantime collect
the pain from everyone else and then use
that to inform other efforts that are
going on and and that will get us
somewhere and then we can iterate yeah
from go side the most useful things
we'll be able to run a go test or go
benchmark so either like helper
functions or just an example where I get
calling from a program and then to some
example like there you extracting more
information is just like time runs me
and with all the good stuff that's
somewhere that would be awesome yeah I
was looking at the the machinery that
runs in there it would be totally
possible to just run that stuff with
cold test lab inside the test lab
environment if we want to scale up
because I think it's only like maximum 5
nodes right now so it's like we wanted
to try bigger things than do that across
the cluster it was designed it was never
designed to be like a thousand thousand
load yeah it was like whoa lady five and
you know we'll see where we get that lab
just runs Linux inside it right you can
just if it runs on Linux you can run it
in there
cool um yeah so it sounds like we have
some next steps on this link particular
now that exists again thank you very
much Alan and that the testing four
people have looked at it and think there
is some opportunity for like in a stage
to like overlap and an accessibility
merging but we're not gonna block on
having these things be the same thing
I think Stevens point and something to
kind of evaluate role is like if if
there is work that already exists is
already done here that you can steal to
hit an MVP really fast that would be
great if it doesn't then say lovey but
that'd be super cool even as like a
system that helps us unblock go ipfs
releases a month earlier would be very
much appreciated
alright to go back through the document
that's even created yesterday there's a
whole ton of stuff in here which is
great it's an awesome census I think
looking at this and how how we want to
move through it I feel like there's some
of these things which are yeah I think
I'd prefer if we start with like desired
in coverage or anything that's confusing
to people or has questions with people
because there's a lot of stuff in here
like you know integration benchmarks or
inter interrupt tests or things like
that where I don't feel like we need to
discuss it it's very good it's written
down but there aren't like top level
questions or interfacing cues about it
and start imagining this more from like
you know things where we actually think
there's going to be tactically worked on
this quarter and just making sure we
don't step on each other's toes with
that work so I think there's some
low-hanging fruit in terms of just
actual test cases I was playing around
with my little sweet three peer in
testing test lab simulation and playing
around a bit slop and I could just tell
between three peers that like good swab
was doing some bad things so I think
that would be an obvious one to focus on
I think you could get like a good like
tears here 20 30 % speed-up would be
reasonable to expect to be able to see
like the graphs move if we fix some of
the issues the problem is I think it's
like it doesn't behave the same every
time you run it and there's some random
things happening so how do we do we just
run it over and over and over again and
average and the numbers I think girls
think thought a lot about this
yeah this is I think this is this is
something we need to go through
synchronously because there's a lot of
brainstorming to do here in general it
is the first time that we're getting
kind of a consensus of what's available
across code bases across to the layman
across you know like all the menus in
the same place and also during the
brainstorming of what kind of tests we
want in the same place as you know
that's listing any more tools we already
have I think we're just gonna have to go
through this so synchronously and I
suggest that we set a date for everybody
to make sure that it gets you know that
everybody gets to contribute the kind of
tests that we think should happen and
any others there's a deadline for that
to force it so maybe end of this week to
read to this document to finish this
document and consider your version 1 of
this document I has the thing that you
know is gonna be your notes not start
North Star in terms of where we want to
get to
I think that involves some amount of
massaging of the form
out of this document as of right now I
think it's a very good census but I
don't think it is a prioritized list or
roadmap so like there's stuff on here
that are that are like wishlist items
that we're not going to get you this
quarter that are really useful to be
tracking and important that we've
written down but like you know aren't
gonna end up on any teams task list
because we have very large items that we
really need to get to that are super
high priority and so I think massaging
from from this list into like actually
what is being taken on and by which
groups like that is that is the really
useful part and so I'd actually maybe
kind of like to like I feel like there
was a thread in our All Hands last
Thursday which was kind of identifying
hey wait there's like some maybe not
disconnects but like there is lack of
clarity in what other groups need and
are doing in order to be successful and
people want to be aware of that because
you know there might be like work slated
for a later milestone which is gonna get
ton done by another team but if you
don't know it you can't reuse it or take
advantage of it and so that's like the
level of like these are the things that
this group is doing from a testing
perspective and making that visible to
all of the other groups is really useful
otherwise everyone continues off on like
their own separate threads and isn't
gonna get exposed until a later point
that's you know hey wait we've been
doing duplicate work yeah so I think in
terms of scope of what this particular
group is has set out to focus on that
was defined in the OPR so that was a
production canary testing and different
levels of priority private network
testing but having said that this blue
is building test in front for all of my
BFS and this is you know where I wanted
to gather requirements from all of ipfs
right because we can't build an
infrastructure that potentially evolves
to work for everybody if we don't have
this place where we connect when
everybody actually that's right so this
is like I think the school
at least from my point of view of the
scope for testing in progress you know
you want to push back on it or you think
we should be focusing on other things I
think the focus for testing fraud in
this quarter is sort of like sealed and
the O'Hara's that are presented a few
weeks ago and I think there should be it
should be gear what this group is going
to be working on if you think that is
not the case then let's talk about it I
wonder what would make sense to put like
the the IPS benchmarks project under the
infra test umbrella
just to clarify like we're trying to
decide decide on interfaces here things
so it's like having like islands in
Stevens group running this benchmark
system and then Rho and me building in
Cole building another system and
organizationally it seems a little odd
I think my caveat to that and my Kavya
to Rose point is I think from my view
and lets you guys can maybe debug my
thinking from my view there's three
efforts here there's the test in for
project which is building test improv
and making sure that that exists there
is the kind of the the two like project
operations and package manager teams
which are writing the benchmarks that
they care about to make sure that the
thing that they need tested in order to
unblock their work forward and to
regularly get feedback loops that they
care about in order to do the
development work that they need are
written and then get run somewhere I
think this thing that exists is a very
good somewhere to start with because it
exists and that's great and you can just
start running the benchmarks so I think
this should be our default this is where
we stick the thing once it exists and if
you then take that thing and put it
inside test in front wonderous and give
us like even more magical things on top
of it
but i want to unblock like Stephen Alan
focus on the package managers team under
Andrew like those humans from like
writing the benchmarks they care about
one I don't think that the two of you
have enough bandwidth so write all of
those benchmarks I don't think that we
want the testing in four team to be like
responsible for all benchmark writing
across the project I think that's a
giant load of work and you're not gonna
be the best team to do it and so there
is like tactical like these are the
benchmarks we need that I think needs to
happen on other teams and needs to be
unblocked to to like start getting
progress because you'll write a
benchmark you'll run it you'll realize
you actually may be tuned version of
that benchmark and you want to be able
to iterate without being blocked for you
know on a new system being created and
then there's the the gateway work that
Hector's working on which is like hey we
should have nightly mirrors hey we
should have like gateway Canaries again
like part of testing part of validating
that ipfs is performing as expected but
it's like spinning up gateway nodes and
and running gateway infrastructure in
such a way that we can do it which also
seems from a infra configuration and
like knowing the metrics we care about
for the Gateway something that the
Gateway team is
best suited to do and again if that gets
consumed and put into a test
infrastructure in a centralized place
wonderful but I don't their first
milestone shouldn't require testing in
from being done or require the testing
and for team to do something in order
that they can start getting value from
that and using that to iterate on on
gateway production readiness and such so
that's my understanding of the way of
the world Jim had a hand roll has a hey
I gotta run
that's these things in has been this is
a top half in the bottom half the bottom
half is in top half is tests and it's
like input team we're testing for works
on intro have test is developers if
that's a good way to think about it so
let me I think I see your point but I
was thinking of like a different
paradigm and a mental model here I think
of this as a I think of an organization
and enterprise that it's building my
groceries right but we've got and you
know somewhat Conway so what we seen
here people that building you know the
soffit that they need to be able to
fulfill you know their goals and fulfill
the goals of the group so really what we
want to do at this point says we are
kind of like from this end this is like
might be since we are kind of like a
horizontal effort that is enabling a
unified view of the testing that's
happening on top of IP FS what we want
to do is at this point start engaging
with Andrews group with package managers
and start engaging with testing in from
without you know just to have
conversations not to block not to block
our efforts because we really don't want
a proper reference but we want to inform
or destroy and this one right and I
think this is the key like we're not
gonna be defining contracts interfaces
nothing like that but we want to
understand how you guys are building
those those tests particularly in the
package managers because I've seen you
already have progress on this so it
would be cool to know high-end how
you're building them and how we can make
it easy for you at this point says we
are conceptualizing the design to
integrate those tests right once we are
once we have a menu for that and once we
have a container how do we in like
does that continue need to look like for
them to be able to market tests and in
terms of in terms of gateway it's got
like the the same thing I when I see is
that this testing pipeline is gonna be
the orchestrator right so a 1-point will
have a commit and it's gonna be a night
me and it's gonna be a schedule is gonna
trigger a job somewhere in empro that is
gonna deploy once this is a commit to in
front with a specific life time which is
going to be 48 hours whatever we want it
to be and when that probe has finished
right we pull in all the metrics and we
display them in the dash right or we do
this on a continuous basis so I mean I
think we have a Z say money yet and we
have two surfaces we should already
start engaging in conversation so that
we building so that the horizontal
platform you know they can accommodate
all of this we take us into account in
the design without blocking this right
so what do you feel like how do you feel
about this I think design conversations
to inform future iterations seems really
good in those cases like probably Allen
Stephen and true or whoever else in the
package managers team it's gonna kind of
run forward with benchmarking or like
great people to interview from a hear
our needs and use cases probably Hugo as
well as someone who is like creating and
writing benchmarks in this tool already
and that and if the two of you doing
that interviewing in order to inform the
design work makes a lot of sense but
that using tactically the existing
baseline infrastructure that's already
running is going to mean make it so that
these groups can progress without
blocking on you guys and even better for
them they're not gonna invest I don't
think at this point a lot of time in
creating like you eyes and fancier
orchestrators and things like that with
the assumption that this baseline that
we have is good enough for our use cases
right now it sounds like it can do all
of the things we want for the benchmarks
we know about though TBD whether Griffin
is gonna let us do it quite as easily as
we want and that that's already gonna be
in a format that you can like great cool
and now it also exists in this wonderful
unified testing pipeline
which saves work on blocks dependencies
which hits both of my two goals for
these efforts there are always iframes
there are always iframes
yes I press all the way down so just to
clarify like these two sort of like
strands of work the using and adapting
and adopting Jas benchmarks for these
for the use cases that we want to we
want to run and try to like advocate for
EJ as benchmarks to like cover the
minimal thing that will allow is to into
a block idea festivai DFS releases know
who's gonna be leading this particular
effort like this looking it is this Alan
do you have the bandwidth or is it gonna
be Jim I wouldn't really suggest
attractive benchmarks yeah they just
happen to be run with the tears too
sweet I mean I on my plate I'm planning
on just like adding a bunch of
benchmarks and I think I was doing zoom
it gets bigger Oh
yeah so the takeaway that I had from
this meeting was that I would spend some
time making this less.js focused and so
more go focus but bring them up to the
same level so that it it's not something
just for Jess and I might need some help
with that but yeah I like I don't have a
lot of time to do that and even less so
this particular period I have a baby
coming soon that will I'm going on
paternity leave so that takes up a chunk
of my time as well so I will do what I
can but like I said like there may it
might be a really small Delta to getting
this useful for go as well if you could
get the Delta there's like the make it
easy to run a go test and I can make all
the tests actually happens we already
have an action against us so the I was
looking at also at the the kubernetes
ipfs repo which also has a whole bunch
of test suites and they wrote their test
Suites in a DSL which is gamal based
which I mean if you do something like
that it doesn't matter if it's GS or go
cuz you're not writing in either of
those I wonder I don't know if any
that's worth reusing but like like that
approach like well I know role is talked
about coming up with a bit of a DSL just
to make it easier to write these tests
at a higher level so for deployment I
think that makes sense in terms of the
test Suites most of our tests are actual
company by you guys anyways it doesn't
really matter it's like if we have like
our clients just like talking to either
the go sir
so I'm imagining some of the package
mounted tests will be shell scripts
because they'll have SAP and possibly
some importing of real-world data we
could write them in go but shell scripts
feel a little bit more and if ports ball
may be slightly longer living or at
least more people will be able to pick
them up and use them but I don't think
it matters too much yeah the test
environments can be Linux so Jeske cargo
go can called years you know Jeske
hospitals have cocci called shell
scripts
and you're just the jeaious benchmarking
dashboard the Allen showed at the
beginning does that leave me package
manager needs at least two kind of
unblock iteration of of running these
things like the architecture and kind of
the feedback loop there yet the ability
to run them locally as well is really
helpful um because we know at the point
where we like we're tracking of worrying
about what is happening your master and
how that's affecting it it's much more
like when you insight into if this thing
that takes half an hour to run on a
regular basis I want to make changes on
a branch and see what's doing because
it's too much to for a developer to be
running it and then going to make a
coffee if we have now kind of thing
I got another call to jump into so this
is really helpful thank you for the
demos thank you for the discussion I
feel like we to remind us of our AI our
goal is to flesh out this document by
end of week so that we can continue
using it as a benchmarking historical
source of truth I think this
conversation it's accessible so I'd like
to make it accessible and also make the
document accessible because it's really
useful data so I'm gonna trying to well
actually Steven I'm realizing I can't
take a eyes anymore because I dropped
them Steven or Alan or someone could you
stick the contents of this document
somewhere useful and github such that
other people can can find it and add to
it over time maybe when we hit our end
every deadline or something so you guys
have Google Docs in into something
thank you guys